---
title: "Autosumit GUI: A ReactJS based visual interface to monitor experiments in a High Performance Computing environment"
tags:
  - Python
  - High Performance Computing
  - Workflow Manager
authors:
  - name: Wilmer V. Uruchi Ticona^[Custom footnotes for e.g. denoting who the corresponding author is can be included like this.]
    ## orcid: 0000-0003-0872-7098
    affiliation: 1 ##"1, 2" # (Multiple affiliations must be quoted)
  - name: Miguel Castrillo
    affiliation: 1
  - name: Daniel Beltrán
    affiliation: 1
affiliations:
  - name: Barcelona Supercomputing Center
    index: 1
  - name: Institution Name
    index: 2
  - name: Independent Researcher
    index: 3
date: 26 November 2020
bibliography: paper.bib
# Optional fields if submitting to a AAS journal too, see this blog post:
# https://blog.joss.theoj.org/2018/12/a-new-collaboration-with-aas-publishing
# aas-doi: 10.3847/xxxxx <- update this with the DOI from AAS once you know it.
# aas-journal: Astrophysical Journal <- The name of the AAS journal.
---

# Summary

`Autosubmit GUI` is a front-end software developed using Javascript and ReactJS that aims to show complex
information, from the workflow of experiments in a High Performance Computing (HPC), in a visual and comprehensive way.
This front-end software consumes information served by an API that collects information from the execution of the workflow of experiments.
An experiment consists of jobs that are executed on the HPC platform following a established sequence, where some jobs depend on others.
`Autosubmit GUI` uses two highly popular and useful libraries: `FancyTree` and `vis.js`, among other web resources that facilitate the visualization of information
and updates.

# Statement of need

The number of jobs in an experiment workflow (managed by `Autosubmit`) ranges from one to several thousands, where the jobs can vary in the kind of task they perform, from data retrieval to complex climate simulation.
The result of the execution of an experiment workflow is usually large amounts of information scattered in a file system.
Originally, this information was accessed through the file system or by using terminal commands (provided through `Autosubmit`) to get the information as a `text`, `pdf` file, or terminal output.
The `Computational Earth Science` team decided that a better way to access this information was needed without risking unreliability nor loss of performance.
A front-end web application was chosen as the solution architecture that would enable us to deploy this service easily and with minimum requirements for our users.
`Autosubmit GUI` was designed and developed with this premise in mind.

The main experiment workflow representation generated by the users of `Autosubmit` was a graph generated through graphviz in a `pdf` file.
Consequently, that was the main representation we tried to mimic in `Autosubmit GUI`.
For this purpose we chose `vis.js`, a proven javascript library that provides graph representations for the provided data.
This library also provides a rich API through which we can manipulate it and dinamically update it.
In our implementation we present several ways to access the `vis.js` objects and adapt them to our necessities in concordancen with the requirements of `ReactJS`.
We believe that this can serve as a guide to those willing to work with graph representations in a web environment.

Later, `Autosubmit GUI` was required to implement a experiment workflow representation that showed more information and arranged the jobs in a hierarchical ways.
As a result, we decided to implement a tree view based on `FancyTree`, a Javascript library.
This library provides a rich API that used to implement our structured visualization of experiment workflows.
It is also a good example on how to use the tools provided by this library.

# Main features

Main features.

# Citations

<!-- Work in progress -->

If you want to cite a software repository URL (e.g. something on GitHub without a preferred
citation) then you can do it with the example BibTeX entry below for @fidgit.

For a quick reference, the following citation commands can be used.

# Figures

Work in progress.

# Acknowledgements

We acknowledge contributions from Francisco Doblas-Reyes, Kim Serradell and all our Earth Science users.

# References

No referencess
